# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

First, I make sure that the code is as simple as possible without sacrificing functionality. I also write comments above each block fo code, along with in-line comments to define certain bits of code, such as variables, if necessary. These comments help to explain what the code does. With regard to the CRUD Python module from Project One, I referenced the module's resources and thought about what each function should do. CRUD (create, read, update, delete) means four different functions and each one has a purpose which should be tailored to a specific program, in this case, a full stack program which served to feed and manipulate data to a dashboard application from a database. With this module, after a signficant change in the code was added or altered, I tested the program by running the dashboard to display the final results and compare those to what the required functionality should be. IIRC, Project One was all about building and testing the CRUD module, while Project Two was about integrating a fully functional dashboard application with that CRUD module, and the required functionality was met. As far as using this CRUD module in the future, the code (and indeed the concepts of CRUD) can be universally applied to basically any program that can use it. Many different applications rely CRUD modules to function properly.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

In my experience so far, I first establish the "why" and the "purpose" of an application or program. Why is it being developed? Then, depending on how complex the project is, I will establish pseudocode or some kind of blueprint to plan out how I'm going to design and develop the application. In the case of Project Two, I had never developed a full stack program before, so it was a learning experience which utilized the module's resources and asking the instructor a question that I was stuck on temporarily. I solved the obstacle that I was stuck on and met the required functionality for the "client", Grazioso Salvare. My approach did not differ to previous assignments, in that I took a modular and iterative approach to developing the module and the dashboard application. In terms of strategies that I would employ in the future, I would employ the same strategy I employed to complete this project, which is to learn the necessary commands and code, in a timely manner, to accomplish meet the client's requests.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists essentially solve problems for their employers or clients. It matters because solving probems, whether big or small, in the aggregate, should contribute to positive advancement for society sas a whole in a positive direction. In this particular case, the client, Grazioso Salvare is an animal rescue operation, and the completion of this project allows them to organize and carry out their animal rescue operations more quickly and efficiently, which benefits the animals who are being rescued and society as a whole. This project allows them, with the click of a button, to easily view and sort their past and future work-related accomplishments, along with  statistics related to animal rescue, and compare those statistics side-by-side with geographical pinpoint data relevant to said statistics.
